Create release notes for release 1.15 Vienna (#615)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2020-08-20-release-notes-1.15/index.md

---
title: "Kyma 1.15 Vienna"
author:
  name: "Maja Kurcius, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "1.15.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-115"
---

Same language, different city! 
After leaving Ulm, we take a short trip to the City of Music, Vienna. 
We all know Vienna for the famous musicians that were either born there or went there to work. 
But did you know that Vienna was the largest German-speaking city in the world up to the 20th century, and to date remains the second-largest one, after Berlin? 
Not to mention the beautiful architecture of the city! 
Inspired by the views, we worked on improving our Console UI. 
We also added more documentation sources to the website. 

> Lastly, we worked on tweaks and improvements for Monitoring, the Kyma CLI, and the ORY stack. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, we worked on tweaks and improvements for monitoring, Kyma CLI, and the ORY stack. 
```

Reviewer: Is there any reason for capitalizing monitoring? 🤔 I'd also skip `the` from before Kyma CLI as this is the pattern we use in [CLI docs](https://kyma-project.io/docs/cli/).

Read the notes to find out more.

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

> - [Monitoring](#monitoring) - Jaeger datasource in Grafana

Reviewer 2: or [data sources](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/features/datasources/jaeger/#jaeger-data-source)?

Author: I also thought about it. Let me check this with the team that provided the input, as I can see on the Net that DataSource is also used as an object name in some cases.

Author: Yep, you were right. Thanks!

> - [Monitoring](#monitoring) - `Jaeger` datasource in Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Monitoring](#monitoring) - Jaeger datasource in Grafana
```

Reviewer: Is there a reason to use code formatting here? 🤔

Author: I was not sure about it. I think both ways are okay. I'm fine with removing it.

> - [CLI](#cli) - Installation from a local checkout to a remote cluster, improved resilience of the `install` command

Reviewer: `the local chechout` ? 🤔

Author: `a local checkout`, as you can check out different commits.

> - [ORY stack](#ory-stack) - Reduced time of Hydra installation, increased availability of Hydra during updates, improved stability of Oathkeeper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ORY stack](#ory-stack) - Reduced time of the Hydra installation, increased availability of Hydra during updates, improved stability of Oathkeeper
```

Author: I would not add `the` here. It's a process, we don't mean the specific process that someone triggered. I believe it's enough that Hydra serves as determiner here.

- [Console](#console) - Managing OAuth2 clients from the Console UI, collapsible navigation categories, configuration of event triggers for services
- [Website](#website) - Documentation from various repository sources displayed on the website

## Monitoring

### Jaeger datasource in Grafana

> We took the chance and preconfigured the new `Jaeger` datasource type in Grafana. Now you can explore all traces available in the Jaeger UI also in the **Explore** section of Grafana by selecting this new datasource. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We took the chance and preconfigured the new Jaeger datasource type in Grafana. Now you can explore all traces available in the Jaeger UI in the **Explore** section of Grafana by selecting this new datasource. 
```

Reviewer: Consider rephrasing this sentence into:
```
Now you can explore all traces available in the Jaeger UI by selecting this new datasource in the **Explore** section of Grafana. 
```

Author: I'll leave the `also` bit, but restructure it as per your suggestion. Thanks!

## CLI

> ### Installation from a local checkout to a remote cluster

Reviewer: `the local checkout` ? 🤔

Author: `a local checkout`, as you can check out different commits.

> The Kyma installation on a remote cluster from a local Kyma GitHub checkout requires building and pushing the `kyma-installer` image to a remote Docker registry. This is now taken care of by the CLI. When the `install` command detects such a setup, it will require you to pass the **--custom-image** parameter specifying the full image name to be used. The CLI will then build and push the image automatically, leveraging the authentication details retrieved from the local Docker client. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kyma installation on a remote cluster from a local Kyma GitHub checkout requires building and pushing the `kyma-installer` image to a remote Docker registry. From now on, CLI takes care of this process. When the `install` command detects such a setup, it will prompt you to pass the **--custom-image** parameter specifying the full image name to be used. CLI will then build and push the image automatically, leveraging the authentication details retrieved from the local Docker client. 
```

> The Kyma installation on a remote cluster from a local Kyma GitHub checkout requires building and pushing the `kyma-installer` image to a remote Docker registry. This is now taken care of by the CLI. When the `install` command detects such a setup, it will require you to pass the **--custom-image** parameter specifying the full image name to be used. The CLI will then build and push the image automatically, leveraging the authentication details retrieved from the local Docker client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kyma installation on a remote cluster from the local Kyma GitHub checkout requires building and pushing the `kyma-installer` image to a remote Docker registry. This is now taken care of by the CLI. When the `install` command detects such a setup, it will require you to pass the **--custom-image** parameter specifying the full image name to be used. The CLI will then build and push the image automatically, leveraging the authentication details retrieved from the local Docker client. 
```

Author: `a local checkout`, as you can check out different commits.

Reviewer 2: `the Kyma installation` -> `Kyma installation`? (same as with `Hydra installation`)

> ###  Improved resilience of the `install` command

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###  Improved resilience of the install command
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we should format it in the headings 🤔

Author: I checked how it rendered and it looked okay, but removing it is also fine by me 👍

> The resilience of the `install` command has been improved. Now, even if you encounter connection problems during installation, the process triggered by the `install` command will be resumed and continue until it's completed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We improved the resilience of the `install` command. Now, even if you encounter connection problems during installation, the process triggered by the `install` command will be resumed and continue until it's completed. 
```

## ORY stack

> ### Reduced time of Hydra installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reduced time of the Hydra installation
```

Author: I would not add `the` here. It's a process, we don't mean the specific process that someone triggered. I believe it's enough that Hydra serves as determiner here.

> We worked on the Hydra installation process and bringing those numbers down, and we succeeded. We significantly reduced the time required to install the component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We worked on the Hydra installation process and bringing those numbers down. As a result, we significantly reduced the time required to install the component.
```

Author: I didn't want to phrase it like this, because I used this exact structure in the next paragraph...

Reviewer 2: I'm thinking if `those numbers` shouldn't be changed somehow as this phrase does not refer to any mentioned previously. How about sth like:
`We worked on the Hydra installation process and managed to cut its time down. As a result, we significantly reduced the time required to install the component.`

Author: I like that. I'll check with the Goat team first to see if they have anything to add, and if they don't  or it doesn't interfere, I'll use your suggestion. Thanks!

Author: In the end, after consulting with the Goat team providing the input, we all decided to convert the ORY stack paragraph into bullet points.

### Increased availability of Hydra during updates

Another thing we worked on was Hydra availability. As a result, the availability of the component during updates is now increased.

> 

Reviewer 2: These 2 sentences say the same thing a bit. Perhaps some more details could be provided? E.g. how much it increased?

Author: Unfortunately, I only got one sentence as input... I'll ask the Goat team if they can provide more detail.

Reviewer 2: If you don't get more details, perhaps we could al least make 1 sentence out of it?

Author: I thought one sentence would look more sloppy, but if you think it's alright, then sure, why not :)

Reviewer 2: at least sth not to repeat `availability` twice :)

Author: In the end, after consulting with the Goat team providing the input, we all decided to convert the ORY stack paragraph into bullet points. :)

### Improved stability of Oathkeeper

The Oathkeeper stability has been improved. We also fixed the issues with periodic restarts.

## Console

### Managing OAuth2 clients from the Console UI

> To interact with the Kyma OAuth2 server and secure your microservices and Functions, you must first [register an OAuth2 client](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/security#details-o-auth2-and-open-id-connect-server-register-an-o-auth2-client). 

Reviewer 2: Oh, and I guess we should link the to 1.15 release.

Author: Righto! Thanks!

So far, you could do it only through `kubectl`. 
With Kyma 1.15, you can also register OAuth2 clients from the new view in the Console UI: 

![OAuth2 clients in the Console UI](./OAuth2-clients-console.png)

### Collapsible navigation categories

Starting with this release, you can collapse categories which you don't use that often to focus on the views that you use frequently. 
For your convenience, the state of collapsed nodes is preserved in the browser cache.  

![Collapsible navigation categories](./collapsible-navigation.png)

> ### Configuration of event triggers for services

Reviewer: `event triggers` or `Event Triggers` as in the UI? 🤔

Author: As @bszwarc suggested, it's `Event Triggers` when you refer to the UI section, and `event triggers` when you talk about the triggers itself. The note says you can configure the triggers, not the section, so `event triggers`.

As of now, you can finally subscribe Kubernetes services to events in your Namespace from the Console UI. 
This feature allows you to easily manage event subscriptions not only for Functions but also for any custom microservice you deployed in your Namespace.  

![Event triggers for services](./event-triggers-for-services.png)

## Website

### Documentation from various repository sources displayed on the website

In response to numerous requests, we extended the **Docs** view and now display various documentation sources on the website.

> From now on, when you click on **Docs** in the main navigation panel, you select the repository from which you want to read the documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From now on, when you click on **Docs** in the main navigation panel, you can select the repository from which you want to read the documentation.
```

Author: I would not add `can`. I thought about it at first, but then I realised, there's no other option. You *have to* select that (1 out of 3), there's no way of skipping this step, so I don't think `can` is suitable here.

> You can choose from the main [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/), Kyma [CLI](https://kyma-project.io/docs/cli/), and Kyma [Control Plane](https://kyma-project.io/docs/control-plane/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose from the main [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/), [Kyma CLI](https://kyma-project.io/docs/cli/), and [Kyma Control Plane](https://kyma-project.io/docs/control-plane/).
```

Author: The reason why I did not put them all in the square brackets was that in the UI we have `CLI` and `Control Plane`.

Reviewer 2: ...so maybe we should also have [Kyma] documentation? I'm also not sure if we should ass Kyma in front of  CLI and Control Plane.
Maybe:
`You can choose from the main [Kyma](https://kyma-project.io/docs/) documentation, or that of [CLI](https://kyma-project.io/docs/cli/), and [Control Plane](https://kyma-project.io/docs/control-plane/).`

Author: I also thought about it. We can do this. I'll change it to `[Kyma]` and remove the `Kyma` part from in front of `CLI` and `Control Plane`.

<!-- I BELIEVE THIS PART IS OF NO INTEREST TO THE CLIENTS/USERS AND SHOULD NOT BE INCLUDED IN THE NOTES; THIS WILL BE REMOVED
It is possible to add documentation from any other repository within the `kyma-project` and `kyma-incubator` GitHub organizations, as long as these documents meet certain requirements and you perform some additional configuration steps.

> To learn the details, see the [instruction on adding a new repository documentation](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content#add-new-documentation-to-the-website-add-new-documentation-to-the-website-add-a-new-repository-documentation). 

Reviewer: As discussed, I wouldn't include this info in the release notes.

---
title: "Kyma 1.15 Vienna"
author:
  name: "Maja Kurcius, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "1.15.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-115"
---

Same language, different city! 
After leaving Ulm, we take a short trip to the City of Music, Vienna. 
We all know Vienna for the famous musicians that were either born there or went there to work. 
But did you know that Vienna was the largest German-speaking city in the world up to the 20th century, and to date remains the second-largest one, after Berlin? 
Not to mention the beautiful architecture of the city! 
Inspired by the views, we worked on improving our Console UI. 
We also added more documentation sources to the website. 
Lastly, we worked on tweaks and improvements for monitoring, Kyma CLI, and the ORY stack. 
Read the notes to find out more.

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [Monitoring](#monitoring) - Jaeger data source in Grafana
- [CLI](#cli) - Installation from a local checkout to a remote cluster, improved resilience of the `install` command

> - [ORY stack](#ory-stack) - Reduced time of Hydra installation, increased availability of Hydra during updates, improved stability of Oathkeeper

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ORY stack](#ory-stack) - Reduced Hydra installation time, increased availability of Hydra during updates, improved stability of Oathkeeper
```

## Monitoring

### Jaeger data source in Grafana

We took the chance and preconfigured the new Jaeger data source in Grafana. Now you can also explore all traces available in the Jaeger UI by selecting this new data source in the **Explore** section of Grafana.

## CLI

### Installation from a local checkout to a remote cluster

Kyma installation on a remote cluster from a local Kyma GitHub checkout requires building and pushing the `kyma-installer` image to a remote Docker registry. From now on, CLI takes care of this process. When the `install` command detects such a setup, it will prompt you to pass the **--custom-image** parameter specifying the full image name to be used. The CLI will then build and push the image automatically, leveraging the authentication details retrieved from the local Docker client. 

###  Improved resilience of the install command

We improved the resilience of the `install` command. Now, even if you encounter connection problems during installation, the process triggered by the `install` command will be resumed and continue until it's completed. 

## ORY stack

Improvements in the ORY stack include:

> * Significantly reduced time of Hydra installation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Significantly reduced Hydra installation time
```

---
title: "Kyma 1.15 Vienna"
author:
  name: "Maja Kurcius, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes
type: release
releaseTag: "1.15.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-115"
---

Same language, different city! 
After leaving Ulm, we take a short trip to the City of Music, Vienna. 

> We all know Vienna for the famous musicians that were either born there or went there to work. 

Reviewer 3: I was thinking maybe `either born or worked there` ? But the original version is also fine with me :)

Author: Let's go with what we discussed :)

But did you know that Vienna was the largest German-speaking city in the world up to the 20th century, and to date remains the second-largest one, after Berlin? 
Not to mention the beautiful architecture of the city! 
Inspired by the views, we worked on improving our Console UI. 
We also added more documentation sources to the website. 
Lastly, we worked on tweaks and improvements for monitoring, Kyma CLI, and the ORY stack. 
Read the notes to find out more.

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [Monitoring](#monitoring) - Jaeger data source in Grafana
- [CLI](#cli) - Installation from a local checkout to a remote cluster, improved resilience of the `install` command
- [ORY stack](#ory-stack) - Reduced time of Hydra installation, increased availability of Hydra during updates, improved stability of Oathkeeper
- [Console](#console) - Managing OAuth2 clients from the Console UI, collapsible navigation categories, configuration of event triggers for services
- [Website](#website) - Documentation from various repository sources displayed on the website

## Monitoring

### Jaeger data source in Grafana

> We took the chance and preconfigured the new Jaeger data source type in Grafana. Now you can also explore all traces available in the Jaeger UI by selecting this new data source in the **Explore** section of Grafana.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We took the chance and preconfigured the new Jaeger data source in Grafana. Now you can also explore all traces available in the Jaeger UI by selecting this new data source in the **Explore** section of Grafana.
```
I would go just with `data source` without the `type`, similarly as the Grafana team describes them here: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/features/datasources/

Author: Oh, I didn't catch this when we discussed it before. Sure! Thanks :)
